The Aizu Domain has extended a
formal offer to enlist the Mibu Roshigumi.
The fourth Aizu man cut down on the street.
He relayed the killer's words
to us just before he passed:
"Are you Aizu dogs blind?
The five of us will see heaven's justice done."
How could anyone do
something so awful? They'll pay.
First, we need information.
You're here about the
murdered Aizu samurai.
It's a good thing we had our guards up.
We may be kids, but we're not easy prey.
I pity you children.
Blue Miburo
I've always been a worrywart.
I tend to take the worst view of things.
He's the assassin who's been
killing the Aizu men.
Hajime-kun!
That's not iai.
Oh?
That makes it all the more tragic.
This is a fight to the death.
Bring it.
H-Hey! Wait!
Let's talk this out!
Move, Nio. You're in my way.
I... I'm not going anywhere!
Look where I'm standing.
You can cut me down, but Hajime-kun's
next strike will get you if you do.
Please. Just a few words.
Idiot.
So you're not just any children.
One has strength beyond his years.
The other has courage and a brain.
You're being deceived.
Do you know why we must
eliminate foreigners?
U-Um...
Because they come into
our country and do bad things?
"Bad things"? Such as what?
Th-They threaten people with guns
to take money and things.
They bring in awful diseases.
A-And they ride around
on horses and... and, um...
Opium.
Wh-What's "opium"?
A drug.
An elixir of death.
One dose rots both body and mind.
An elixir of death?
They start by trading with silver,
but that's just bait.
They quickly switch to opium.
It leads to nothing but tragedy.
They corrupt countries
from within, then take over.
It happened to our neighbors, the Qing.
Foreigners—the English—attacked them.
The war ended in defeat for the Qing,
but the flow of opium hasn't stopped.
Has anyone told you of this?
N-No one.
Do all the Miburo know about this?
Yet the Shogunate still plans to open up
the country, and Aizu supports it.
The Miburo will become their agents.
They're taking advantage of your ignorance.
Thoughtlessness. Failure to
consider the consequences.
In my opinion, both are crimes.
The Shogunate has no idea.
Thus, Choshu has risen up.
If you stand in our way, I have no choice...
but to kill you.
H-He's an anti-shogunate idealist.
Is that your idea of justice?
It is.
Do you call ripping out
your victim's eyes justice, too?
I couldn't make my point otherwise.
In point of fact, it has rattled Aizu.
That makes it necessary.
Do you get it now? Fall back!
I will not.
Why, you...
So you do get it.
But we won't kill him.
We need him to tell us
where to find the other four.
I need to fight. For...
For my own idea of justice.
You'll join the fray?
How sad.
He'll watch out for Hajime-kun more than me.
I'll use that to...
Someone's there!
Hajime-kun, behind you!
Aw, damn. I wanted to give you a scare.
Unthinkable. I had no idea he was there.
What? Who is this guy?
What are you doing here, Kyoshiro?
I came to help, brother!
B-Brother?
Wait a moment.
I'm from Choshu. You're from Satsuma.
Our births and upbringings
were nothing alike.
Since when are we "brothers"?
Huh? We shared cups, didn't we?
We drank together once and
now you consider us family?
How sad.
I make sure I said to act
independently to avoid attention.
Situations change, and so do tactics.
I take life as it comes.
Jutaro, you're too set in your ways.
Not good.
We're stuck here with
two of the five assassins.
He wears swords on both hips.
Are they wakizashi? Or kodachi?
We've just gotta kill 'em all!
Listen up. The trick to this job
is doing what needs doing.
Without whining, waiting,
or leaving anything to chance!
Is he a shinobi?
Hajime-kun!
Now...
So you will stand and fight.
What did I pick up a sword for?
For right now. For this moment!
Get closer.
Closer.
He's in range.
How futile.
Won't you join us?
I will not.
You're young and clever.
You simply don't know anything.
To be honest, I'd rather not kill you.
Swear that you won't side
with the Shogunate.
That you'll have no more to do with Aizu.
Tell me you'll leave
the Miburo this instant.
No!
Last chance.
Don't throw your life away.
I am a Miburo!
I'll never say it! Never!
I may die, but I'll never sell my soul!
Where's the soul?
I can!
I have one, and I'm gonna keep it!
If you stand in our way, I have no choice...
but to kill you.
If nothing and no one can
take them from you...
that's your idea of justice.
I understand.
We share one purpose: to defend Kyoto!
Now I'm sure. It's not about
our ideas of justice.
Whatever happens,
I can't let this guy run loose!
For the nation and for the future,
I must sometimes sacrifice innocent souls.
Sacrifice?
What gives a murderer the right
to talk about our country's future?!
Damn it.
Damn it!
Nio!
Nio! Say something!
How sad.
O-Okita!
Hey.
Nio-kun. Nio-kun.
Hang in there. Can you do that?
Huh? Who's he?
For a shinobi, he sure leaves himself open.
Nio!
Nio! Get up! Nio!
You're gonna regret this.
You're dead, asshole!
I'll take you down, even if it kills me.
I'll smash your bones to dust
and stomp you into hell!
Hey...
You're alive?
Huh? Taro-kun?
Bah! You couldn't just stay dead, could you?
I'm so glad.
And Okita-san, too?
You must be a Miburo.
You're in the wrong here.
Grown men tempt and
incite with honeyed lies,
drawing children into bloody war.
You have much to answer for.
Someone always says something like that.
What?
"Children can't think things through.
They need adults to guide them."
But I wonder.
These boys have lives of their own.
They have their own worries and conflicts.
Child society is more complex
than adults imagine.
So they lie and scheme
without a second thought.
They have dreams.
They have pride.
They have their world.
You shouldn't look down on them.
They can think and act for themselves.
Conceited adults only tell themselves
they can bend kids to their will.
You Shogunate dog.
A dog?
Is that supposed to be an insult?
What a silly thing to say.
Everyone is some kind of dog.
Some people just don't realize it.
I haven't met anyone so impossible
to talk to since Kyoshiro.
Are you even listening to me?
I'm listening. I'm answering you, aren't I?
I'll bet you've been called
a poor speaker all your life.
Not at all. Woman and children
tell me I'm easy to talk to.
That's not what I mean!
Oh, but people do ask me to explain
swordsmanship more clearly.
That's it!
The Shogunate is doomed.
Why don't you see that?
What? Really?
Stand your ground! Tell me your ideas.
I won't debate you.
That's not my job.
Wh-What?
Anyway...
If you're a swordsman,
we should talk with these.
You witless oaf.
Oh, come on. You think you
can beat Jutaro man-to-man?
He hasn't left any openings.
Unlike you.
You might as well tell me your name.
Oh, I like that. Like a proper duel.
I am Kimura Jutaro, samurai of Choshu.
I'll remember that.
I'm Okita Soji.
Okita-san.
I feel so sad.
You're going to die.
The fight's started, right?
This sword is for me?
A masterwork. It has been
in our family for generations.
I can't accept such a treasure.
Don't worry.
Jutaro, work for others and the
greater good, not for your own gain.
My sincerest gratitude.
I swear to serve society.
This cannot be.
I haven't done nearly enough...
for the greater...
Oh!
I forgot.
I'm a Miburo!
Okita Soji of the Mibu Roshigumi!
H-He's so strong.
He never feels doubt or hesitates.
This is what it means to fight
with your life on the line.
This is what Okita-san can really do.
You sack of shit!
You killed Jutaro!
I'll make you regret that!
You're dead, Miburo dog!
A shuriken?
He's a ninja!
A ninja? That sounds so fun!
I'll go after him!
Wait!
I-I'll go with you.
Give it a rest!
Huh?
H-Hey!
Hang in there, you big idiot!
Is this... the Yagi house?
Someone must have carried me back.
Hijikata-san.
I, um...
Taro saved you.
He showed Soji the way.
Taro-kun did?
Sanosuke carried you back, though.
He wants dango later.
I see.
I'll have to thank him.
So, um, what about everyone else?
They say they won't come back until
they've killed the four other brutes.
Without sleeping? That's dedication.
Hijikata-san.
What is it?
Could I please have a real sword?
Why do you want one?
You'd better not be thinking of revenge
for your brush with death.
N-No, nothing like that.
A sword is a weapon for killing.
Do you understand that?
Yes, sir. I've seen that more
than once since I came here.
What would you do with one?
Could you draw it?
I... don't think I could.
B-But, um...
Hajime told me.
It wasn't just some
crazed killer this time, was it?
Right.
He needed to pay for what he'd done,
but what he said made sense.
It didn't sound wrong.
Were the Aizu people angry?
Their fellows were murdered.
I suppose. They seemed angry and sad.
So did Kyoshiro-san.
Who?
The man Okita-san killed was Jutaro-san.
Kyoshiro-san was the other one.
He sounded furious about losing a comrade.
I hear he turned tail and ran all the same.
He must be quick on his feet
if he managed to lose Soji.
I think he weighed his anger against
his chances of dying, and chose survival.
He must have been calm
and smart enough for that.
Losing a comrade made him angry.
I understand that feeling.
They really are just like us.
As observant as ever.
His insight makes it easy to
over-empathize with his opponents.
Here's your sword.
Huh?
I was already planning to give it to you.
I woke up a shopkeeper to get it.
It's cheap, but it's sharp.
You won't run from a fight just because
you understand the other side, will you?
Right.
Take it.
Yes, sir.
I-It's certainly heavy.
We all carry something
that makes the weight worth it.
You shoulder something important, too.
Don't forget that.
Never stop feeling that weight.
Nio, what is your burden?
I want to make a world where
townspeople feel safe to go out at night.
Good.
I want to make a world
where kids feel safe to cry.
Good.
I want to make a world
where the weak aren't abused.
Good.
I really do need to stop those people!
Killing people to change
the world has to be wrong.
Thank you for this sword, sir.
I promise I'll use it with care.
You're taking both? They'll get in the way.
I'll use this one.
This is my soul! I won't use it!
What sense does that make?
Well, all right.
Let's go.
Huh? Where to, sir?
Isn't that obvious?
To see that boy who set you up.
To
Each
His Own
Justice
Next time
T-Tanaka Taro here.
I'm glad Nio's all right, but now
I'm stuck tagging along with patrols.
How am I supposed to track down shady guys?
Wait. Come to think of it,
I do know one guy I don't trust.
I swear I'll dig up dirt on him.
Next time: "Pride."
Y-You will watch it, right?
Pride